>> Steve Kinney: We talk about MobX.
MobX is really cool.
It is one of those things where we need
to get some terms kinda under our belts,
just so that when we're talking
about it all kind of makes sense.
So just talking about this
idea of computer properties,
I first heard about computed
properties from Ember.
Actually if you think about it,
like Ruby kinda just does it
out of the box like Ruby.
If you say dot like some instance
variable, it's really a method, and
the equals is also a method, and
it's not dissimilar from that.
So here,
we've just got a regular JavaScript class.
And one of the things that,
kinda thinking in a React document,
that we always wanna do, is we wanna like
be able to derive state when possible.
We don't wanna necessarily like have to
make every time the first name changes or
last name changes,
set a new full name one to be the first
name of space in the last name.
And so in JavaScript with our properties,
like this stuff, first name,
you can do this,
whatever the new person is, first name.
And the last name,
you get the last name, but
if you wanted to compute a full name,
this is obviously super naive.
Well, the way you call that
is a little bit different.
If you called the first name,
you're gonna get it.
The last name, you're gonna get it.
But if you just say dot full name,
you're gonna get the function reference.
And it's actually, one of the things that
makes JavaScript super powerful is that we
have first class functions that you
can pass around and do stuff with.
But it's also like a little bit squirrely,
we have to do something like that
if we will have the full name.
And that's like not super great.
Now, with just ES6, and
there's a syntax to do this is ES5
that we'll look at a little bit.
But [LAUGH] we're far
enough past 2015 now.
You can put this get keyword in front
of it and it's still a function but
now you get the same syntax
the whole way through.
And this is like much better.
As I said, this seems like some new magic.
I don't see it used as much as it
probably can and should be used.
A lot of the backbone code I wrote
in 2013 could have very much helped.
Could have benefitted from this,
cuz it was very much,
you'd have to do that method call.
So this is what it looked like in ES5.
It's great, that's wonderful syntax.
But it helps with what's kind of called
the universal access principle, which is
I don't have to think about which ones
are methods and which ones are properties.
Using the get keyword makes it a little
bit easier to have computed and
derived state.
Now, the kind of out-of-the box ES5 or
ES6 implementation, like we're still
gonna call that function every time.
And yeah, we're just putting a space in
between first and last name, no big deal.
But if you're doing
something kind of expensive,
that could be somewhat problematic.
So we'll actually mob x will solve
some of that problem for us.
There is one other like fancy new
JavaScript feature that we need to like
wrap our heads around in order to
like see like MobX like really shine.
And that is this concept of decorators.
Decorators exist in a bunch
of other languages.
They are somewhat supported in JavaScript,
they're not like the that get key
word is totally valid JavaScript if
you dealt with the console of
decorators are still a proposal phase.
And so they're a little bit
controversial us all the time.
But we'll look at how to use my backs
with decorators and without decorators.
Decorators are basically a syntactic
sugar for higher order functions.
Higher order functions is again a function
that wraps another function with extra
capabilities.
Anything you can do in the decorator,
you can do with a regular function,
we use higher order components
in the basic React course and
we use a higher-order component
every time we use connect.
That was a function that took
map state to props [INAUDIBLE],
eventually it took a component and
wrapped it all together.
So decorators is just syntactic sugar.
Cool.
So this is actually for the getter.
This is how the decorator syntax,
if you wanna make your own decorator.
Whatever the decorator name is,
the target, the key, and the description.
And you could say, okay,
if I wanna make it writeable
or readonly, I can set writable to false
and then return a new version of it.
So now I can do this declarator,
which is this at symbol,
which will take that get fullName method.
And it will return a new
version of that method
that has been modified to be read only.
Now you could also just wrap the kinda
invocation around the return.
And return a new function,
so on and so forth.
We've written a few.
Like we wrote one back in 2017, and I
hated the name of it, but we went with it.
@bindThis, and what that did was
it took whatever method in their
reaction component and
did that this, whatever equals this,
that whatever that bind
this automatically.
And so we use that one all over the place
back before class property shipped
to mega so we weren't writing, it was
less arduous to write that than it was
to have to go ahead and
like do that by hand all the time.
There's a library called core-decorators,
which will do a lot of these things,
like someone just went ahead and
wrote a bunch of them.
I believe it might have been Jay Phelps,
who also wrote Redux-Observable,
that wrote this library.
And so, autobind is effectively
our bind this decorator,
that will do the same
thing as I just said,
deprecate will just console warn,
this method is deprecated.
And so instead like wrapping it all in
the console when you can just like,
say @deprecated next to the method, and
like you'll get that console warning.
Readonly memoize is effectively at
the debounce, so on and so forth.
There's also lodash decorators which take
some of the common lodash ones and do it.
The big or a big problem with decorators
is that they are not exactly real.
And this will come,
they're still in the proposal phase and
not officially in the language.
But with like the advent of Babel,
it's like a big shift
before will be like some new thing with
shipping the DOM API or in JavaScript, but
you can't use it because of
Internet Explorer 6, [LAUGH] right?
And so you have to use like effectively
like ES3 even when he has five was out.
And now with Babel, we start using
syntax like way before it even ships.
And there's some like scariness of like,
maybe the syntax doesn't end up actually
ending up like that and you have
a slightly like squarely a version,
where this becomes slightly problematic
for using something like create React app.
Like they have decorators like turned off.
Let's rephrase that,
they don't have decorators turned off,
they don't have them turned on,
[LAUGH] so you have to object and
adjust the Babel configuration yourself.
If you're using decorators,
you are assuming a non-zero
risk that the version of decorators
that eventually ends up in
the language is different from
the version of decorators that
you were using when you got ahead of
the curve and started to use Babel.
That's fine, we're gonna look at MobX
effectively with decorators and without.
I really like the decorators.
I like decorator syntax in general.
And I also like like it with MobX.
We'll see it both ways.
But when we get like really
like knee deep into the code,
I'll probably just be using decorators.
All right, so we know about getters and
setters, the set keyword,
we don't actually see there is cuz we're
actually gonna use it is the ability to
say dot full name equals, and
actually have a function that does stuff,
that maybe splits it on a space and
sets the first name and the last name.
It's the exact opposite of the get.
And decorators, super cool.
Those are JavaScript things that aren't
necessarily related to MobX, but
they're useful for us cuz we're
gonna see them as we work with MobX.
All right, so Redux is great.
I use Redux.
I like Redux, it's wonderful.
But even stuff we had to do with
the immutably changing nested property,
wasn't my favorite thing
in the world to do.
[LAUGH] I did it with a smile on my face,
but I did not enjoy it.
There's a part of me that kinda misses
like the object oriented programming
model of like calling methods and like,
okay, what if, like list had an array of
cards and the idea of moving a card was
simply popping it out of one array and
pushing it on to the other one like you
would do with regular old JavaScript,
JavaScript in general and
JavaScript objects.
Like where if you didn't have to,
like have a framework checking for
different amounts of is this
object preferentially different.
You were just like writing
regular ES classes,
you could do a lot of what
we're gonna do in MobX.
It's just because the obstruction that is
helping make our UIs fast by like virtual
dipping, and figuring what's changed,
that's really hard for them.
So MobX basically Kind of one of the
themes of this course is, like, sometimes
if you have a really great abstraction,
you can hide nasty complexity.
And so MobX does exactly that.
It uses some of the Reactive programming,
but
it hides it from you like we saw it
up close and personal with RxJS.
MobX, that's where the X comes from.
And the OB is observable.
And so they are kind of
related abstracts all of that.
It makes it very easy but
it's doing a lot of those same concepts.
So you use your very simple and
normal ones.
And basically as stuff changes,
it will say, hey,
I know that this property changed.
Cuz it's using these getters and
setters and stuff under the hood.
You just use it like
a normal JavaScript object.
But I know that you need to
trigger some kinda event and
lead something now, and one of
the things you can do is let React now.
Yeah, they push something on to an array.
But I know that this is a brand new array,
and
you need to rerender which is pretty,
pretty great.